Leading up to the year 2000, we saw a
huge influx of money flowing into
technology stocks. The valuations were
way out of whack. Nonsophisticated
investors suddenly became experts and a
new paradigm was created. Everyone
believed that technology was the
perpetual boom in which infinite amounts
of money could be absorbed. You think
that was a bad idea? You came here for
the truth. Let's talk about the docomb
bubble 2.0. That's where I want to have
the focus today. Let's dig right in
right away. And this is an article out
of the Guardian. It's quite good. I'm
just going to cover a portion of it. It
talks about the startup boom fizzle and
San Francisco's housing investment.
Okay, that's what I want to cover. Just
going to cover one short piece of that.
We are starting to get a lot of resumes
from software engineers at companies
where the business model isn't
working. Okay, I'll just explain the
fact that when they say the business
model isn't working, that means
essentially that people have this idea
and they want a lot of money for that
idea to then go and build a business
around, but of course they can't get the
funding. So, they are closing down or
cutting back. And that's what it is all
about where they have a lot thrown up at
the front hoping that people are going
to buy in and they make a very big
mistake and that's just the way it is.
Now other businesses, other sectors,
they don't go so headirst into things.
Okay. But it seems like
technology is really one of those even
after the.com boom, it still seems that
there's a lot of money there because
everyone's hoping to buy into the next
Google and Apple and everything else and
they're just trying to make that money
right off the off the bat just like
that. I think this is a big mistake and
we will see that this could be in fact
the dot 2.0. These startups are running
out of money because VCs are being more
discerning about where they place their
money, making fewer bigger bets. That's
the way it should have been from the
beginning. The number of investments in
the private market has fallen by about a
third, but the amount of capital is the
same. And then last, just to finish it
off here, it's been happening for a
couple years. It's not as easy to raise
capital and VCs are demanding better
terms. I would say that this is part of
the whole economy and it's not just
what's going on in tech where you can
have all this money just, you know,
sloshing around everywhere and it's not
necessarily the case anymore to some
degree. People are trying to find
alternative investments, investors in
sync. For tech companies, funding moves
in lock step. If public dollars fall,
private falls too. And this is something
that we have seen conveniently since
approximately the year 2000 that you
have all markets moving in sync with
each other since the year
2000. All money, all of everything, you
know, leading up into
2008, why why oh why was all assets
increasing in their value? All assets.
It's not supposed to happen like that.
You're supposed to have some sectors
rising while other sectors are falling
and then it just it keeps happening. So,
if you pay close attention to the
market, you can move your money around
and you can continue to make profit in
downturns. That doesn't seem to be
happening anymore and we will see that
uh upon the next crash. In fact, it
happened in 2008. We will see that
again. Snapchat, you've seen what's
happened with that obviously. You know,
there's been ups and downs, but the
trend clearly is down. We'll going to
have to see how this plays out though in
the future. It's a little too early, but
it just shows you that technology is not
impervious to all the
downsides. And then there's this San
Francisco's housing prices. now despite
the fact that obviously okay it's gone
up considerably over the years that's a
fact but it has been rather stagnant for
the past few and obviously the price
being so high it becomes unaffordable
for a lot of people so the market has
let's say less buyers for these
particular homes maybe people are moving
out of San Francisco and they're going
way out or they're just moving cities
altogether together and you have to do
something. I mean, there's a lot of
people who in San Francisco, these
individuals who are entry- level
positions and everything else that are
living in tents and living in holes in
the wall practically, and this is not a
very good sign for the market. You can't
do that. But it shows you the well-being
of individuals who are there as well.
Thought that was interesting. I just
want to switch gears into this last
article talking about the oil market. I
thought it was interesting. Wanted to
bring it to you. The surge in shorts
reduced the massive record net long
crude position by the second most in
history but clearly it remains extremely
one-sided still. So obviously you know
you have this grand rise that has uh
come up but whenever I see most in
history I definitely like to show that
and it is uh right here. We'll see where
it goes. I just think
that there's a little bit of u let's
say reaction that's been going on. I
want to see how this plays out because
the price right now of crude oil is, you
know, rather stagnant over the past few
years. Ever since the price dropped
down, it did come up quite a bit, but I
would say overall it's sort of been
trading within a range here and we are
looking for something to happen. I mean,
it all depends on what happens with the
global economy. Will it in fact rise?
Will there be uh new wells being opened
up? Will we the fracking, the shale
increase? Will we what will we have
here? That's all going to determine
right now with oil and I believe that we
could have, you know, if the global
economy starts to fall, you know, the
prices could certainly come down and the
obviously the opposite. So, I'm looking
for this. Keep your eyes on what's
happening with crude oil. Never take
your eyes off it. One of the most
important commodities, no doubt. If you
found this video informative, please
give me a thumbs up. Now, if you found
the video informative, I know you'll
find my books, The Money GPS and Global
Economic Collapse, even more
informative. If you want to look through
the book, just go over to Amazon and
they have these look inside features
that will allow you to flip through the
pages of the books and see if you like
it. Take care.